Rough draft (#2)
greenelab/xswap-manuscript: content/01.abstract.md

## Abstract {.page_break_before}

> Networks of biomedical data are subject to both false positives and false negatives, meaning that entities rarely have all their true connections represented in any given network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Networks of biomedical data rarely consist of all true relationships. Instead, networks contain spurious relationships while omitting actual relationships.
```

"false positives" and "false negative" are confusing terms used for a variety of concepts and applications. Therefore, I suggest being more specific and contextual when possible. Less LINGO.

> Deviations from true connections can be biased with respect to node degree due to a variety of processes including inspection bias and experimental methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How a network deviates from the real set of relationships is often biased according to node degree, resulting from processes such as inspection bias and experimental methods.
```

I am not sure it is helpful for us to call edges connections? I would stick with relationships or edges. Perhaps we should pick what terminology we want and make sure to be consistent.

While degree is subject to potentially substantial biases, link prediction methods can be strongly affected by degree.
In the present work, we introduce a network permutation framework to quantify the effect of node degree on network-based methods and prediction tasks.

> We introduce the "edge prior", a permutation-based feature that quantifies a node pair's affinity to share an edge across permuted networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We introduce the "edge prior" to quantify the probability that two nodes are connected based only on their degree.
The edge prior is derived empirically from many degree-preserving permutations of a network.
We also provide an analytic estimate of the edge prior for uses which require extreme computational efficiency.
```

> After demonstrating that this prior feature shows excellent discrimination and calibration performance for some prediction tasks, we conclude that our prior feature represents a suitable baseline for network link prediction tasks, as performance exceeding the baseline is attributable to factors other than degree alone.

Reviewer: "some prediction tasks" is WEAK. Can we say some like "XX different networks (XX bipartite, XX directed, XX undirected)." This would allow us to mention the different network types supported by our xswap implementation.
